In the previous video, we already learn
how to import cisco router to gns3,
we use cisco 7200 series. But I
think this series is to heavy.
So in this case, I will try to use
the lighter series, which is 2691.
To download it, we can just
browse download cisco image,
and then open the first website.
Here we can download 2691.
Now let’s back to gns3 and learn how to import
cisco 2691 series. Go to preference, ios routers,
click new to import new router, browse
to the image that we have download,
yes, next, next the default ram is 192.
Next, here for the slot, let’s add 4t, here we
also have 1fetx, this is means 1 fast ethernet,
and 4t means 4 serial interface. Let’s just
choose 4t. Here we can just type any number,
let’s say 1 2 1, next, let’s find
the idle pc, wait for a minute here.
Okay done.
Now we have 7200 and 2691 series. Let’s
import 2691 series to the project.
Connecting router 1 to router 2, here we have
many interfaces, we have fast ethernet,
and we also have serial interface.
Let’s choose fast ethernet.
Start the router, right click
on the router and then start,
or we also click on this icon
to start all router at once.
Okay now router 1 and router 2 is started,
let’s configure the ip address, router 1 will be
10.10.10.1/24 and router 2 will be 10.10.10.2/24.
Let’s start with route1,
configure terminal, interface fa0/0, no shutdown,
and then the ip address is
10.10.10.1 255.255.255.0,
next for router 2,
configure terminal, interface fa0/0, no shutdown,
and then the ip address is
10.10.10.2 255.255.255.0.
let’s test the connection,
Ping from router 2 to router 1, do ping 10.10.10.1,
Okay this is success.
I think enough for this video, in the
next video, we are going to learn how
to install virtual machine ubuntu. We will
need linux ubuntu to do network automation.
Thank you for watching and
see you on the next video.